# WovenLight TfL Scheduler Service

This project is a Python web service that schedules calls to Transport for London’s (TfL) Line API to retrieve line disruption information.  
It demonstrates REST API design, background scheduling, database persistence, logging, and containerization.

---

## Features

- **Task Scheduling**
  - Add tasks specifying tube line IDs and a schedule time.
  - If no schedule time is provided, the task runs immediately.
- **Task Management**
  - Get all tasks or by ID (with status & results).
  - Update task lines or schedule time (if still scheduled).
  - Delete tasks.
- **TfL Line Disruptions**
  - Fetches disruptions from [`https://api.tfl.gov.uk/Line/*`](https://api.tfl.gov.uk/).
- **Database**
  - Defaults to SQLite (local env/dev/tests).
  - Supports PostgreSQL via `DATABASE_URL` on docker.
- **Scheduler**
  - Uses APScheduler for background jobs.
- **Logging**
  - Structured JSON logs with request/response context.
- **Authentication (BONUS)**
  - Optional JWT protection for all endpoints.

---

## Endpoints

### Create Task
```bash
curl -X POST -H 'Content-Type: application/json' -d '{"scheduler_time" : "2021-11-12T17:00:00", "lines":"victoria"}' http://localhost:5555/tasks
```

### Create Task with Alias scheduler_time

```bash
curl -X POST -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{"scheduler_time": "2026-11-12T17:00:00", "lines":"victoria,central"}' \
  http://127.0.0.1:5555/tasks
```

### List Tasks

```bash
curl http://127.0.0.1:5555/tasks
```

### Get Task by ID

```bash
curl http://127.0.0.1:5555/tasks/<id>
```

### Update Task

```bash
curl -X PATCH -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{"lines": "victoria,central"}' \
  http://127.0.0.1:5555/tasks/<id>
```

### Delete Task

```bash
curl -X DELETE http://127.0.0.1:5555/tasks/<id>
```


## Local Development

You will need poetry to install these dependenices if you're running them locally.

### Install dependencies


```bash
poetry install
```

### Run with SQLite (default)

```bash
poetry run uvicorn app.main:app --reload --host 127.0.0.1 --port 5555
```

### Run Tests

```bash
poetry run pytest -q
```

### Running with Docker (I used docker version 28.3.3)

```bash
docker compose up --build
```

You can find the docs at http://localhost:5555/docs


## Bonus Optional JWT Auth
### To Enable JWT AUTH:

Enable token checking at all endpoints (router = APIRouter(dependencies=[Depends(require_auth())]))

Uncomment line 18 in app/routes.py

Comment out line 16 in app/routespy

Set env variables to local env:

```bash
export JWT_SECRET="super-long-random-dev-secret"
export JWT_ISSUER="wovenlight-dev"
export JWT_AUD="wovenlight-api"
```

Add env variable to docker-compose: 

```bash
JWT_SECRET=super-long-random-dev-secret
JWT_ISSUER=wovenlight-dev
JWT_AUD=wovenlight-api
```

Now run the APP

### Get a JWT token:

Run the following command

```bash
python generate_token.py
```

Paste the token as follows:

```bash
TOKEN='<paste the token here>'
```

Use as Follows:

```bash
curl -H "Authorization: Bearer $TOKEN" http://127.0.0.1:5555/tasks
```


## Limitations

1) Caching has not been implemented.

2) Rate Limiting has not been implemented.

3) If the  JWT Token is being used, the app needs to be run with additional headers than those specified in the project requirements. The Jwt tken itself also needs to be generated by another file. Hence this has been kept as optional.

4) Middleware logging to see who acced what has not been added. This logging is useful for security purposes and access control.

5) The application does not contain code to deploy on a cloud environment such as on AWS ECS, and lacks the necessary Terraform or CDK files for that.

6) The codebase does not inlcude CI/CD yaml files for runnning linters, tests, uploading images to a cloud platfrom, or deploying the app to development, staging and production environments.

7) Environment variables have been used here which would normally have been placed in a vault for security.


## Time Taken

About 10-12 hours